 "Tomorrow is going to be a good day with this current," he said. "Where are you going?" the boy asked.
> 余：“湾流不变的话，明天准是个好晴天。”他说。“你去哪儿？”男孩问他。
>
> 张：「明天一定收获好，有这潮水，」他说。「你预备到那里去？」孩子问。

"Far out to come in when the wind shifts. I want to be out before it is light." 
> 余：
> 
> 张：「老远的，等风转了向再回来。我要天亮前就出去。」

"I'll try to get him to work far out," the boy said. "Then if you hook something truly big we can come to your aid." 
> 余：
> 
> 张：「我来试着叫他也到远处去打鱼，」孩子说，「那么假使你钓着一条真正大的，我们可以帮你的忙。」

"He does not like to work too far out." "No," the boy said. "But I will see something that he cannot see such as a bird working and get him to come out after dolphin." "Are his eyes that bad?" "He is almost blind." "It is strange," the old man said. "He never went turtle-ing. That is what kills the eyes."
> 余：
> 
> 张：「他不喜欢到太远的地方去打鱼。」「是的，」孩子说。「但是有些东西他看不见的，我看得见，譬如有一只鸟在那里捉鱼，那我就可以叫他去钓鲯鳅。」「他的眼睛这样坏？」「他差不多瞎子。」「这很奇怪。他从来也没有去捕龟，那最伤眼睛了。」

"But you went turtle-ing for years off the Mosquito Coast and your eyes are good." "I am a strange old man." "But are you strong enough now for a truly big fish?" "I think so. And there are many tricks." "Let us take the stuff home," the boy said. "So I can get the cast net and go after the sardines." They picked up the gear from the boat. The old man carried the mast on his shoulder and the boy carried the wooden box with the coiled, hard-braided brown lines, the gaff and the harpoon with its shaft.
> 余：
> 
> 张：

The box with the baits was under the stern of the skiff along with the club that was used to subdue the big fish when they were brought alongside. No one would steal from the old man but it was better to take the sail and the heavy lines home as the dew was bad for them and, though he was quite sure no local people would steal from him, the old man thought that a gaff and a harpoon were needless temptations to leave in a boat. They walked up the road together to the old man's shack and went in through its open door.
> 余：
> 
> 张：

The old man leaned the mast with its wrapped sail against the wall and the boy put the box and the other gear beside it. The mast was nearly as long as the one room of the shack. The shack was made of the tough budshields of the royal palm which are called guano and in it there was a bed, a table, one chair and a place on the dirt floor to cook with charcoal. On the brown walls of the flattened, overlapping leaves of the sturdy fibered guano there was a picture in color of the Sacred Heart of Jesus and another of the Virgin of Cobre.
> 余：
> 
> 张：

These were relics of his wife. Once there had been a tinted photograph of his wife on the wall but he had taken it down because it made him too lonely to see it and it was on the shelf in the corner under his clean shirt. "What do you have to eat?" the boy asked. "A pot of yellow rice with fish. Do you want some?" "No. I will eat at home. Do you want me to make the fire?" "No. I will make it later on. Or I may eat the rice cold." "May I take the cast net?" "Of course."
> 余：
> 
> 张：
