
"Tell me about the baseball," the boy asked him. "In the American League it is the Yankees as I said," the old man said happily. "They lost today," the boy told him. "That means nothing. The great DiMaggio is himself again." "They have other men on the team." "Naturally. But he makes the difference. In the other league, between Brooklyn and Philadelphia I must take Brooklyn. But then I think of Dick Sisler and those great drives in the old park." "There was nothing ever like them. He hits the longest ball I have ever seen."
「你讲棒球的事给我听。」孩子请求他。「在美国联赛里就推洋基队了，我早就说过，」老人快乐地说。「他们今天输了，」孩子告诉他。「那不算什么。伟大的狄玛奇奥又恢复了往日的雄风。」「他们这一队里也还有别人。」「那自然啰。可是有了他就两样了。在另外那个联赛里，在布鲁克林和费城两队里面，我还是宁愿要布鲁克林队。可是我又想起狄克西斯勒，在老球场里那样有力地一记记打过去。」「从来没有人打过像他们那样的球。我看见过的人里是他打得最远了。」
> 余：
> 
> 张：

"Do you remember when he used to come to the Terrace? I wanted to take him fishing but I was too timid to ask him. Then I asked you to ask him and you were too timid." "I know. It was a great mistake. He might have gone with us. Then we would have that for all of our lives." "I would like to take the great DiMaggio fishing," the old man said. "They say his father was a fisherman. Maybe he was as poor as we are and would understand." "The great Sisler's father was never poor and he, the father, was playing in the Big Leagues when he was my age."
> 余：
> 
> 张：

"When I was your age I was before the mast on a square rigged ship that ran to Africa and I have seen lions on the beaches in the evening." "I know. You told me." "Should we talk about Africa or about baseball?" "Baseball I think," the boy said. "Tell me about the great John J. McGraw." He said Jota for J. "He used to come to the Terrace sometimes too in the older days. But he was rough and harsh-spoken and difficult when he was drinking. His mind was on horses as well as baseball.

At least he carried lists of horses at all times in his pocket and frequently spoke the names of horses on the telephone." "He was a great manager," the boy said. "My father thinks he was the greatest." "Because he came here the most times," the old man said. "If Durocher had continued to come here each year your father would think him the greatest manager." "Who is the greatest manager, really, Luque or Mike Gonzalez?" "I think they are equal. "And the best fisherman is you." " No. I know others better."

"Que va," the boy said. "There are many good fishermen and some great ones. But there is only you." "Thank you. You make me happy. I hope no fish will come along so great that he will prove us wrong. "There is no such fish if you are still strong as you say," "I may not be as strong as I think," the old man said. "But I know many tricks and I have resolution." "You ought to go to bed now so that you will be fresh in the morning. I will take the things back to the Terrace."

